Adding separate documentation file for IO types and Categories (#47)
movestore/movestore.github.io: IO_types.md

# Input and Output types

> The Apps on MoveApps are based on different programming languages (currently R and Python), and each App uses functions that require a specific data input type and provide a specific data output type. Thus, each App is characterised by those two input/output (IO) types. Apps can only be added in sequence into a Workflow if the output type of the previous App matches the input type of the next App. Some IO types can be translated into each other using [Translator Apps](translator.md) and Apps of those types can therefore be used in the same Workflow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The input/output (IO) type of Apps determine the connectivity within a Workflow. The Apps on MoveApps are based on different programming languages (currently R and Python), and each App uses functions that require a specific data input type and provide a specific data output type. Thus, each App is characterised by those two input/output types. The input and output does not have to be of the same type. Apps can only be added in sequence into a Workflow if the output type of the previous App matches the input type of the next App. Some IO types can be translated into each other using [Translator Apps](translator.md) enabling to connect Apps with different IO types within one Workflow. 
```

When submitting an App to MoveApps, the runtime environment (R or Python) needs to be indicated, as well as the input and output types of your App. Note that the IO types and runtime environment will be fixed to the App and cannot be changed afterwards.

The following IO types are currently available in MoveApps

#### IO types for R

> - [ctmm model with data](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/ctmm_model_with_data/README.md ':ignore')
> - [ctmm ud with data](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/ctmm_ud_with_data/README.md ':ignore')
> - [ctmm::telemetry.list](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/ctmm_telemetry_list/README.md ':ignore')
> - [move::moveStack](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/move_move_stack/README.md ':ignore')
> - [move2::move2_loc](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/move2_move2_loc/README.md ':ignore')
> - [move2::move2_nonloc](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/move2_move2_nonloc/README.md ':ignore')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [move2::move2_loc](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/move2_move2_loc/README.md ':ignore')
- [move2::move2_nonloc](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/move2_move2_nonloc/README.md ':ignore')
- [ctmm::telemetry.list](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/ctmm_telemetry_list/README.md ':ignore')
- [ctmm model with data](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/ctmm_model_with_data/README.md ':ignore')
- [ctmm ud with data](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/ctmm_ud_with_data/README.md ':ignore')
- [move::moveStack](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/src/analyzer/move_move_stack/README.md ':ignore'). We encourage to rather use the `move2::move2_loc` IO type, as the R library `move` is going to be deprecated at some point.
```

#### IO types for Python
- [MovingPandas.TrajectoryCollection](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-python/blob/main/src/analyzer/moving_pandas_trajectory_collection/README.md ':ignore')

## Requesting a new IO type

> To extend the functionality of MoveApps, it is possible to request new IO types. If you need a new IO type for your App, please [request a new IO type](https://www.moveapps.org/apps/io-type/request). In the form, please describe your request to us, provide a label and adapt our [R](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r) or [Python](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-python) cargo agent repository accordingly. In the form, you will also need to provide a link to a pull request of the adapted cargo agent (this option is available in the form after selecting the Runtime Environment). Your IO type request will now be reviewed by a system administrator. Once an administrator has approved your IO type request, it will be available on the MoveApps platform. Make sure to also provide [Translator Apps](translator.md) to/from other IO types to widen the usability of your App on MoveApps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extend the functionality of MoveApps, it is possible to request new IO types. If you need a new IO type for your App, please [request a new IO type](https://www.moveapps.org/apps/io-type/request). In the form, please describe your request to us, provide a label and adapt our [R](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r) or [Python](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-python) cargo agent repository accordingly. In the form, you will also need to provide a link to a pull request of the adapted cargo agent (this option is available in the form after selecting the Runtime Environment). Your IO type request will now be reviewed by a system administrator. Once an administrator has approved your IO type request, it will be available on the MoveApps platform. If it makes sense you can also provide [Translator Apps](translator.md) to/from other IO types to widen the usability of your App on MoveApps.
```

!\> Details on how to request a new IO type and how to adapt the cargo agent be found in the README of the [R](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-r/blob/main/README.md) and [Python](https://github.com/movestore/cargo-agent-python/blob/main/README.md) cargo agents.

<kbd>![](files/ReqNewIOtype_2024.png)</kbd>

# App Categories

> When submitting an App, you will be asked to assign one or more Categories to your App. Assigning appropriate Categories to your App ensures that it can easily be found by other users. In the App Browser, Apps can be filered by their Category, among others. Examples of currently available App Categories are 'Data Access', 'Data Visualisation', 'Segmentation', and 'Translator'. Check out the [App Browser](https://www.moveapps.org/apps/browser) for a list of all available App Categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When submitting an App, you will be asked to assign one or more Categories to your App. Assigning appropriate Categories to your App ensures that it can easily be found by other users. In the App Browser, Apps can be filtered or searched by their Category. The Categories are currently grouped within the Classes `Location Data`, `Integration`, `Helper`. Check out the [App Browser](https://www.moveapps.org/apps/browser) for a list of all available App Categories.
```
